# Doing the Work

## About this tool

It can be difficult to do the work to untangle the complex feelings and
thoughts we have about issues in our society. Sometimes we’re not able
to organise our thoughts coherently, or we feel upset about things out
of our control, or we have conflicting inner thoughts that we push away
because it’s too confusing.

I built this tool hoping to facilitate that emotional and intellectual
work by meeting you where you are. The prompts that come up may be ones
you agree with, disagree with, or feel conflicted about. The tool isn’t
intended to promote particular viewpoints (though my own subjectivity
has led to specific wordings), but rather to help you dig into your own
beliefs. In addition to helping you question your beliefs, I hope the
tool can help you strengthen them too. It can serve as a space for you
to lay out your thoughts on issues you have strong opinions on, which
you might draw on for conversations with people with differing views.
The tool doesn’t have to live only on this website – I like to imagine
it alternatively as a conversation framework or journaling exercise too,
if you feel so inspired!

**The prompts:** the prompts listed here are very non-methodically assembled by my searching “friendly reminder” on Twitter and writing down common statements, slogans, or stances, or attempting to summarise common opinions in clear, succinct language that’s generalisable for multiple countries or institutions. There are many potential prompts I’ve missed out on, some I’m not sure how to word, and some existing prompts that can probably be worded better. Understanding the many limits with this broad approach, I’ve implemented a “custom” feature that allows you to rewrite prompts or set your own, and I very much welcome (moderated) contributions to the list – please check the [section](#contribute) below! And if you have feedback on how this tool can be improved, please do reach out! This is a tool for learning, and making it is certainly a learning experience for me.

**Privacy:** nothing you type here is recorded or saved, except for your
own eyes, if you choose to download a text file of a particular entry.
Please feel free to be as honest with yourself as you’re comfortable!

Inspired partly by [ELIZA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ELIZA).

— [Katherine Yang](https://whykatherine.github.io)

## Setup

```
python -m http.server
```

## Contribute

Prompt additions welcome (pending moderation)! Edits are welcome too, preferring suggestions about clarifying or opening up the language rather than changing the stance. Feel free to engage by either:
1. Creating an issue to on this repo to suggest or address something, or
2. Fork the repo, edit the prompts.txt file (either directly on GitHub or on your own system), then submit a pull request. ([Tutorial on forking projects](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/))